---
title: "Upgrading mechatronic model to extension points"
source: "https://www.eplan.help/en-us/infoportal/content/eecpro/2026/Content/htm/tutp8_h_expert.htm"
file: "tutp8_h_expert"
category: "tutp8"
---

# Upgrading mechatronic model to extension points

This functionality is only available for certain module packages. [Info / Copyright](license.htm) You are here:  Upgrading mechatronic model to extension points The upgrade of the model to extension points is targeted towards experienced users who are already familiar with the basic functions. The currently structured model serves as the starting point. If the model has not been elaborated, the P8.eox sample file has to be imported as well as the EEC preferences, model variables and the P8 settings have to be adapted. The concept of extension points is based on the idea that only such components are installed on an extension point that import an interface by the same name and that are visible for the project. Those discipline components are visible whose libraries have been imported into the project. The number of components to be inserted is specified separately for each extension point or is controlled by formulas. The insertion of components is triggered by an update of the extension points. The model is upgraded to extension points by means of the following steps: [Deleting the project](tutp8_h_expert_delete_project.htm) [Expanding the architecture](tutp8_h_expert_extend_architecture.htm) [Creating the library for interfaces](tutp8_h_expert_create_interface_lib.htm) [Importing the library for interfaces into the modular system](tutp8_h_expert_import_interface_lib_to_mech.htm) [Installing the extension points in mechatronic components](tutp8_h_expert_extent_mech_by_extensionpoints.htm) [Creating the library for the discipline ECAD P8](tutp8_h_expert_create_discipline_lib.htm) [Encapsulating the discipline components in mechatronic components](tutp8_h_expert_encapsulate_discipline_comps.htm) [Modifying the formulas](tutp8_h_expert_correct_formulas.htm) [Creating the actions for the import of the discipline library into the modular system](tutp8_h_expert_create_action_for_import_of_discipline.htm) [Generating the finished schematic](tutp8_h_expert_test.htm)
