---
title: "Level configuration of text disciplines"
source: "https://www.eplan.help/en-us/infoportal/content/eecpro/2026/Content/htm/eectext_k_level_configuration.htm"
file: "eectext_k_level_configuration"
category: "eectext"
---

# Level configuration of text disciplines

This functionality is only available for certain module packages. [Info / Copyright](license.htm) You are here:  Fragment Folder File Template file Fragment Level configuration of text disciplines Discipline-specific structures are constructed hierarchically. Specific levels can be given for each discipline, e.g. HTML body, tables, rows and cells for an HTML discipline. Therefore, analogous to mechatronical level configuration, a level configuration also has to be created for a text discipline. To do this, open the New library object wizard via the context menu and select the top-level component of the text discipline (in the example, HTMLComponent). After [Finish] is clicked, the editor for the level component appears. Analogous to mechatronic level configuration, permissible sub-levels can be defined on the editor’s sub-level page. In previous models, care had to be taken to ensure that each level component of a text discipline had exactly one modular-system component, e.g. in the parts-list discipline of the demo model. In the current version of the text discipline, it is therefore also possible for level components to already be assigned resources, parameters, etc. As a result, level components can also be used directly as modular system components. If this is prevented by the previous approach, then the Abstract attribute must be set, in order to prevent the component from being used directly, i.e. to make it instantiable. For components of the text discipline, the following output types may be declared: Folder, File, Template File or Fragment. The following figure shows the output types of the text-discipline components and their possible configuration in the discipline-specific configuration: Previously, it was specified in the discipline configuration whether one document for every discipline component or one document for the discipline configuration should be created. This option has been deprecated, because the structure of the folders and files to be created can now be constructed more flexibly by means of the output types. Files and template files are created in the first top-level folders. The names of the created folders and template files correspond to the discipline names, meaning that they can be calculated via the Name of the parameter for the names in discipline structures model variable. Objects of the File output type are only passed by EEC. In the process the file name can be defined through a formula, while the file extension is retained.
