---
title: "Finder dialog"
source: "https://www.eplan.help/en-us/infoportal/content/eecpro/2026/Content/htm/gui_k_finder_dialog.htm"
file: "gui_k_finder_dialog"
category: "gui"
---

# Finder dialog

This functionality is only available for certain module packages. [Info / Copyright](license.htm) You are here:  Finder dialog When creating a modular system or configuration of a machine, existing objects need to be found, for example, when a project engineer wants to use suitable base machines or a function modular system from the library. A Finder function including dialog is available to speed up this process. The Finder dialog is started via . The Finder dialog has a specific window title, depending on the object type being searched, but its essential functional principle is identical for all object types. The following figure shows a Finder for parameters: Name: Is used to enter a search term or parts of it to restrict the list of searched objects. The input field is designed as a combo box, which means previously input expressions can be selected in case of repeated queries. Case sensitive: Restricts the search for objects to matches which correspond exactly to the case sensitivity in the Name field. Regular expression: Regular expressions are used in the Name field to restrict the list of searched objects. [Expanded search options]: Opens a dialog to restrict the search for objects in a more differentiated way by entering name, unit and comment. [Find]: Starts the search with the specified search criteria and restrictions. All search results that correspond to the specifications are listed in the list. Without a specification the results list contains all the objects of the current library. The sorting of the list is alphabetical and can be customized by clicking a column heading. The list of search results consists of the following elements: Name column: Contains the object name. Unit column: Contains the absolute paths to the objects. Comment column: Contains the contents of the comment field of the objects. Type column: Contains the types of objects. Meta type column: Contains the specifications for the type of the objects and their forms of content. For example, String Type: Socket describes a parameter of the Socket type with the form of content String. [Export...]: Opens a dialog to export the parameters to a CSV file. Optionally you can export the column headings and open the CSV file after a successful export. [OK]: Inserts one or all marked objects into the editor of the current object. [Cancel]: Closes the dialog without inserting an object into the editor of the current object.
