---
title: "Perspectives"
source: "https://www.eplan.help/en-us/infoportal/content/eecpro/2026/Content/htm/gui_k_perspectives.htm"
file: "gui_k_perspectives"
category: "gui"
---

# Perspectives

This functionality is only available for certain module packages. [Info / Copyright](license.htm) You are here:  Perspectives In order to manage certain combinations from within views, the concept of Perspectives has been created. A perspective is a compilation of views and an editor area. The perspectives Engineering, Project, Synchronization and Job Server. They can be extended and adjusted.
    1. Open perspective
    2. Pre-defined perspectives: Engineering, synchronization, project and Job Server
The Engineering perspective shows all libraries and projects. The Project perspective allows views of only a specific project that has been selected previously. Depending on the project displayed in the Project Explorer view, only the libraries visible to the project are represented in the Project libraries view: One can switch between these two perspectives either by left-clicking the corresponding icon or via the menu Window > Open Perspective > Engineering / Project. Another way of switching from the project catalog of the Engineering perspective to the Project perspective is via the popup menu of the corresponding project. To do this, select the menu item Open Project Perspective > In current window. Within the Project perspective, it is possible to switch between projects without having to leave the perspective. To do this, select the desired project from the drop-down menu via the  icon. [Defining perspectives](javascript:void\(0\);) EEC allows the user to define and save his or her own perspectives. For this, one configures the windows and editors as needed. Then, select the menu Window > Save Perspective As... . In the following dialog, a designation must be assigned to the perspective. Even the pre-defined perspectives Project and Engineering can be re-defined by saving an existing configuration from Views as Perspectives using the name Project or Engineering. [Perspective Job Server](javascript:void\(0\);) The perspective Job Server can be accessed through the menu Window > Open Perspective > Other... > Job Server (Window > Open Perspective > Other... Job Server: The perspective Job Server consists of the views Message Log, Console and Progress. The Message Log logs among others the messages of the Job Server. The logging is limited to a specific period of time or to a specific number of messages by settings (see [Message log settings](eecbase_k_searching_errors_by_means_of_messagelog_user_preferences.htm)). The Console shows further messages, even those which are not relevant for the message log. The Progress view shows the progress of the running Job Server operation as a bar graph. Additionally the toolbar provides two buttons:
     * Job Server startup : Activates the Job Server, which means that the Job Server searches for JMX files in the folder which is set in the settings. If a JMX file is available, the Job Server starts executing the directives contained in the file. Together with the Job Server a new console is started.
     * End Job Server : Ends the Job Server, which means that the currently running job is aborted at an appropriate point. After the Job is restarted, it is not continued at the last position, but starts from the beginning.
Note Before closing the EEC, the last perspective displayed will be saved and restored when the EC is launched again. It may happen sometimes that the rebuilding of an editor page after data changes may cause the EEC to crash. When the EEC is started again, an attempt is made to rebuild this editor page, which causes a crash, or – if the EC has not yet saved the information about the opened editor in a permanent manner – the last opened page is rebuilt upon opening the editor again, which also causes a crash. To prevent this, it is now possible to prevent the setup of the editor by pressing the keys [Ctrl] \+ [Shift] at the same time. This will also reset the page to be displayed, i.e., next time the editor is opened, it will open with the attribute page. In the first case, when starting the EEC, the key combination [Ctrl] \+ [Shift] must be pressed, and kept pressed, until the EEC appears. In the second case, the editor of the object must be opened via the Popup menu > Open, while keeping the key combination [Ctrl] \+ [Shift] pressed. If several editors are open at the start of the EEC, the cancelation of the setup applies only to the visible editor. If this one is closed, the other editors will be set up, if [Ctrl] \+ [Shift] is again pressed.
