---
title: "Upgrading mechatronic model to extension points"
source: "https://www.eplan.help/en-us/infoportal/content/eecpro/2026/Content/htm/tutword_h_expert.htm"
file: "tutword_h_expert"
category: "tutword"
---

# Upgrading mechatronic model to extension points

This functionality is only available for certain module packages. [Info / Copyright](license.htm) You are here:  Upgrading mechatronic model to extension points The upgrade of the model to extension points is targeted towards experienced users who are already familiar with the basic functions. The currently structured model serves as the starting point. If the model has not been worked through, the Word.eox sample file has to be imported and the EEC preferences and model variables have to be adapted. The concept of extension points is based on the idea that only such components are installed on an extension point that import an interface by the same name and that are visible for the project. Those discipline components are visible whose libraries have been imported into the project. The number of components to be inserted is specified separately for each extension point or is controlled by formulas. The insertion of components is triggered by updating the extension points. The model is upgraded to extension points by means of the following steps: [Deleting a project](tutword_h_expert_delete_project.htm) [Expanding the architecture](tutword_h_expert_extend_architecture.htm) [Creating a library for interfaces](tutword_h_expert_create_interface_lib.htm) [Creating a library for the image objects](tutword_h_expert_create_image_lib.htm) [Creating a library for the Word discipline](tutword_h_expert_create_discipline_lib.htm) [Importing a library for interfaces](tutword_h_expert_import_interface_lib.htm) [Enclosing discipline components in mechatronic components](tutword_h_expert_encapsulate_discipline_comps.htm) [Installing extension points into mechatronic components](tutword_h_expert_extent_mech_by_extensionpoints.htm) [Parameterizing encapsulating mechatronic components](tutword_h_expert_correct_formulas.htm) [Creating actions for the import of the discipline library into the modular system](tutword_h_expert_create_action_for_import_of_discipline.htm) [Testing upgrade](tutword_h_expert_test.htm) [Comparison with sample solution](tutword_h_task2_compare.htm)
